# messenger
CONTENT
        1. INTRODUCTION
        2. DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
        3. USAGE

1. INTRODUCTION
This is the README file for Messenger project which provides communication between users. It supports multi-user chat, GUI, and multi-device use.

2. DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

src/               : The source codes of the projects.
    
    client/        : The source code of the client project.

    commands/      : The commands.

    gui/           : The source code of the gui project.

	messenger_exe  : The main function of this project. Runs the messenger and
					 creats connection to server.

	parser/		   : The source code of the json parser.

    server/        : The source code of the server project. Has it's own main
				     function which runs the server and waiting for user connection.

mkf/               : GNU make scripts which are used for building/running the
                     project.

makefile           : provides the targets which are described in "USAGE"
                     section.


3. USAGE 

At first the build type and link type should be setup.
        make setup [build_type=<build_type>] [link_type=<link_type>] 
			[use_gcov=<yes|no>] [use_sdk=<yes|no>] [sdk_path=<path>]
			[office_sdk_path=<path>]

where build_type is:

        debug - switches off compiler optimizations and enable debug
                information generation. The default value is debug.

        release - switches on compiler optimizations and disable debug
                  information generation.

      link_type is:

        dynamic - builds dynamic libraries (shared objects *.so). The default
                  value is dynamic.

        static - builds static libraries (archives *.a) 

      use_sdk is:

        yes - use third party tools from the <sdk_path> and <office_sdk_path>.
	      The default value for <sdk_path> is
	      /opt/instigate/gnu_linux_sdk/2.2.
	      The default value for <office_sdk_path> is
	      /opt/instigate/gnu_linux_office/1.3.

        no - ignore <sdk_path> and <office_sdk_path> variables

      sdk_path is:

        The path of third party tools.

      office_sdk_path is:

        The path of installed office package

      use_gcov is:

        yes - compile with gcov flags

usage: make [<target>]

          where <target> = help | clean | clean_conf |
                        developer_docs | user_docs | docs | clean_docs |
                        test | clean_test |
                        coverage | clean_coverage |
                        continuous_tests | weekly_tests | nightly_tests
           
         default - build the project according to current setup
 
            help - displays information about make usage
           
           clean - cleans all the temporary files created by previous builds

      clean_conf - cleans statically stored meta-information
                   about dependency libraries generated during first build
 
  developer_docs - generates documentation of the project for developer
 
       user_docs - generates user's documentation
 
            docs - generates both the developer's and user's documentation 
 
      clean_docs - cleans the documentation generated by Doxygen tool

regression_tests - includes the tests to check the basic principles of the
                   application.  Should be called after each modification to
                   check the regression of application.
                  
continuous_tests - tests to be run after each modification. 
                  
   nightly_tests - tests to be run after working day
                     
    weekly_tests - tests to be run after working week 

           test - runs the tests of the project, by default continuous tests are
                  run
           
     clean_test - removes the temporary files generated by 'make test'
                  command

       coverage - collect coverage data for the mentioned projects. The list of
                  the sub-projects for which the coverage data 
                  should be collected, can be defined by 'coverage_projects' 
                  variable in the top level makefile.

 clean_coverage - removes the temporary files generated by 'make coverage'
                  command<br/>
There is need to install Poco library, the required directory is /home/user/poco/.
To use it in the project there is need to add the mentioned path as illustrated below:
  export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/poco/lib/Linux/x86_64
  There can be i686 or ... depends on cpu instead of x86_64.

Type following command for seeing the documentation.
       firefox doc/user/manual/html/index.html

Type following command for running server.
       ./bin/server

Type following command for running messenger.
       ./bin/messenger_exe
